# Blockchain
Basic console app using blockchain technology to save transactions between users.

The application allows user to add transactions to blockchain.
Blocks are generated by miners and, if valid, they are added to blockchain and saved to the file.

The app uses multithreading to allow user actions and generating blocks by miners in the same time.
Additionally, each miner uses its own thread.
Number of miners depends on current available processors count.

User can transfer Virtual Coins (VC) between users.
Each user gets 100 VC at start, and Miners get additional 100 VC for finding the block.

To add transactions data to blockchain, user writes transaction orders in following form:
````
<NameOfSender> sends <Number> VC to <NameOfReceiver>
````
The application uses asymmetric cryptography to sign and verify transaction.
User private and public key are generated at application start.

Block will be printed, once it is found, even if no transactions are ordered.
Hash difficulty level of blocks are adjusted (increased or decreased by 1),
if the generation time of previous block was shorter than 5 seconds or longer than 20 seconds.

## Getting started
These instructions will help you to run and use the application.

### Prerequisites
Things you need to use the program.
````
IDE
Files from the repository
````
## Running
1. Create a new project
2. Import files from the repository
3. Build and Run program

## Built with
The application is written in Java, with use of Java 8 features such as streams and lambdas.

## Author
Przemysław Krukowski

